# Chapter 1.5
## Process Management
Processes can create subprocesses. All processes need resources(cpu time, memory, files, I/O-devices), typically allocated at runtime. Initialization data can be passed.The CPU may only execute one instruction at a time. A single-threaded process utilizes one program counter. Several processes can run by multiplexing, but this still holds true.
The OS is responsible for:
- Creating, deleting, suspending and resuming user and OS processes
- CPU scheduling
- Providing mechanisms for process syncronization and process communication

## Memory management
The OS must manage loading programs in memory, and keep track of available memory and processes memory spaces.

## File-system management
The OS provides an abstraction on top of storage media called a file system with the unit type _file_. This is a very general concept.
Some things the OS must manage are:
- Creating and deleting files and directories
- Supporting file manipulation primitives
- Mapping files to mass storage
- Backing up files on nonvolatile media

## Mass-storage management
Most programs and data kept in secondary storage. Therefore, it is used extensively and must be managed by the OS.
This includes:
- Mounting and unmounting
- Free-space management
- Storage allocation
- Disk scheduling
- Partitioning
- Protection

## Cache management
Caching is the process of storing a copy of data on a faster medium, anticipating it will be needed in the future. When we then need that data, we look in the cache first and find it faster. This means that we may have many copies of the same data at the same time. Secondary storage - memory - cache - register. This _can_ be a problem if several processes need access to the same time. We must ensure cache coherancy. The situation can be worsened by several cores, several processors with their own cache, several systems in a cluster, or even a distributed system with long response times between nodes that share resources. When considering a typical multicore system, cache coherehncy is a hardware problem and not handled by the OS.

## I/O System management
I/O is to a large degree isolated inside the I/O subsystem(in UNIX), in order to abstract and simplify interacting with it. This includes:
- A memory-management component that includes buffering, caching and spooling
- A general device driver interface
- Drivers for specific hardware devices